# ADAQAnalysis Version Change Log

name: Changelog.md  
date: 28 Dec 16 (last updated)  
auth: Zach Hartwig  
mail: hartwig@psfc.mit.edu  

## Version 1.8 Series

### 1.8.6

 - Fixed issue preventing use of PSD regions as spectra filters when
   using waveform data

 - Properly specified file extension as '.acal' of the default
   calibration file name


### 1.8.5

 - Removed issue preventing spectra creation from raw waveforms. Issue
   appears to be located upstream in ADAQAcquisition and ADAQ file.
   

### 1.8.4

 - Corrected calculation of error in the integral of the spectrum
   gaussian fit. Thanks to Leigh Ann Kesler (MIT) for the code.

 - Major update to the spectrum analysis output file. A large amount
   of nicely formated fit/integral data is now output.

 - Fixed spectra creation with waveform data when using PSD regions
   when the PSD parameter was (tail/total).


### 1.8.3

 - Added ability to output spectrum fit parameters and results to a
   data file for easier post-processing

 - Added default names to all output files for user convenience.
 

### 1.8.2

 - Added widgets for displaying spectrum gaussian fit parameter and
   energy resolution error. Enables proper error assessment of peak
   fits when subtracting continuum.

 - Fixed problem preventing creation of calibrated spectra from
   waveform data. Also, performed code cleanup and optimization.


### 1.8.1

 - Several important bugs, mainly related to the recent PSD overhaul:

   - Properly enabled calibrated PSD histograms and region cuts during
     parallel processing of waveforms

   - Disable PSD slicing buttons after PSD histogram slice standalone
     window is closed. Results in expected, non-annoying behavior.

   - Preventing seg faults for plotting non-existent channel calibrations

 - All legacy code (AIMS-specific) has been ripped out
 

Major new developments in this series include:

 - New standalone 'PSD' tab with complete reorganization of
   widgets. This localizes all PSD creation and analysis together and
   should make finding/using them much easier

 - New ability to automatically calculate the PSD figure-of-merit when
   slicing PSD histograms along the Y direction

 - New ability to plot the X-axis of the PSD histogram in energy units
   [keVee or MeVee] when a spectral calibration has been specified

 - A lot of bug fixes and minor updates, including:
   - Varoius interface/widget-behavior corrections and improvements
   - Corrected user ability to use/not-use an existing PSD region
   - New PSD color palettes available
   - Updates to PSD slice plot graphical attributes
   - Depracated code removed in various places; code standardization


## Version 1.6 series

Major new developments in this series include:

 - Updated for compatibility with newest ROOT6 (v6.06.00)


### 1.6.3

 - Enabling calibration for data channels higher than 8 for
   compatibility with 16 channel V1725 boards
   

### 1.6.2

 - Fixed bug preventing creation of calibrated spectra when using
   processed waveform data.
   

### 1.6.1

 - Fixed a major bug that was including identical data in pulse
   spectra for waveform data analysis. The data was included ~N times
   (N is the number of enabled data channels used in ADAQAcquisition)

 - Fixed a major bug preventing correct selection of data channel for
   pulse spectra creation when using waveform data analysis

 - Adding new min/max thresholds for inclusion of data in pulse spectra

 - Reimplemented option for linear interpolation on calibration data


## Version 1.4 Series

Major new developments in this series include:

 - Implemented ability to read ADAQ files produced with
   ADAQAcquisition that was running CAEN DPP-PSD firmware. Initial
   testing has been successful.

 - Spectral calibration are now exclusively handled by linear or
   quadratic fits to the calibration data over a user-specified
   range. New features (including the fit equation) have been added to
   the calibration plot

 - Fixed a major bug preventing the creation of PSD histograms
   directly from waveform data (PSD integrals in this case) optionally
	stored in ADAQ files (as opposed to full waveform analysis)

### 1.4.1

 - Updated for compatability with new ASIM file format

 - Adding new ASIM testing file; renaming NaI Na22 ADAQ file for consistency

 - Removing depracated AAConstants header; commenting out depracated
   methods slated for removal in future releases


## Version 1.2 Series

Major new developments in this series include:

 - Ability to create spectra and PSD histograms directly from waveform
   data stored within an ADAQ file. This waveform data is created in
   real time by ADAQAcquisition and stored in the ADAQ file if the
   user has selected to do so. The waveform data is primarily energy
   values (e.g. pulse height and pulse area) and PSD integrals
   (e.g. the tail ('short') and total ('long') waveform integrals.
   This feature enables extremely fast creation of spectra and PSD
   histograms while minimizing the required storage space of ADAQ
   files on disk if the user opts to *not* store the raw waveforms
   along with the analyzed waveform data.

 - New feature separates waveform processing and spectrum creation
   such that (for a given set of waveform settings) the waveforms only
   need to be processed *once* and can then be calibrated, rebinned,
   spectra type, etc, without having to reprocess the waveforms
   additional times for each operation. This is extremely useful for
   large data sets where the process of calibration or rebinning, for
   example, was extremely CPU and time intensive. During processing,
   pulse height and pulse area are both calculated and stored for
   later use, enabling near-instant switching between pulse height and
   pulse area spectra.

### 1.2.1

 - Corrections to Makefile to ensure easier building across Linux platfors

 - Restrict waveform analysis to user-specified region in
   time. Applies for spectrum and PSD histogram creation

 - Completely split waveform processing and PSD histogram creation to
   ensure optimal PSD. Implemented for sequential and parallel
   architectures. Various PSD button behavior erros fixed.

 - Updates and optimization of graphics, graphical default settings,
   GUI buttons for custom axes properties

 - New PSD color palette selection option

 - Calibration vectors are now automatically sorted to that
   calibration points can be added in any order

 - Automatic replotting of waveforms when the user clicks to autorange
   the y axis during waveform plotting
   	 
### 1.2.0

 - Correctly set spectrum TH1F X-axis limits when mininmum bin is
   zero. This fix also suppresses visualization of the under/overflow
   bins, which previously caused undesired display of spectrum.

 - Correctly set spectrum TH1F X-axis title based on spectrum type
   (pulse area/height) and calibration state (keV, MeV)

 - Fixed bug in state of spectrum process/create text buttons when
   loading ASIM files


## Version 1.0 Series

Major new developments in this series include:

### 1.0.1

 - Enabled spectrum background min/max limits in floats instead of
   restricting to integer values

 - Ability to specify the title for PSD histogram plotting corrected

 - Casting enumerators to Int_ts to prevent MPI compiler warnings
